Project Proposal
William Guo, Matt Dang, Longsheng Lin, Kimberly Nguyen

We plan on building a travel-based web application. This app would 
help users find the cheapest prices for airline tickets, while also 
providing relevant information that users can factor into their 
trip-planning. This information includes the average weather for 
specific dates based on past data, currency exchange values, 
interesting travel facts (for instance, known customs for a 
particular country), and popular attractions. Users can also input 
dates for which they want to set aside for travel. Additionally, we 
plan to add a social element by allowing users to create accounts and 
add other users as friends. Users can mark their travel dates on a 
calendar that is public to their friends to allow for coordinated 
trip-planning. 

We plan on using a weather API to give accurate weather reports on 
the travel times that users have selected for their destination. We 
are currently looking at Yahoo!’s weather API for this because it 
has a decent API limit per day, and one of our group members has had 
a good experience with using it in the past. We also need a flights 
price API so that we can gather prices for a destination. We are 
looking into using Skyscanner because it has a great number of free 
API calls. For hotel rates, we plan on using the Google Hotel and 
Hotel Ads API, which should have hotel prices for select dates.

In our database, we will store user information such as usernames and 
passwords. In addition, we will store the users' budgets: the 
amount that users are willing to spend on suggested travels outside 
their travel dates. We will also store the dates that users have set 
aside for travel. Furthermore, we will keep track of users’ lists of 
friends so that we can compare their travel dates and see if they can 
join or invite anyone whose travel schedules overlap with their own. 
We will also store past user travels. This will be the dates traveled 
and a possible summary of the trip, should the user choose to submit 
one.

There will be the usual log-in and registration pages. Next is the 
homepage where users can view their feeds. The user feed will consist 
of trips or past trips that friends are going or have gone on, as 
well as a suggestions area at the bottom to suggest trips that do not 
take into account users' travel dates but does take into account 
their budgets. There will also be a travel dates page where users can 
create travel dates, receive suggestions based on those dates, and 
lock in a travel destination. Then, there will be a past travels page 
where users can view their past travels, give summaries of their past 
travels, and view their friends’ past travels. Finally, there will be 
a profile page where users can edit their information, such as their 
usual travel budget and any travel destinations in which they are 
interested.

Word Count: 486